Designing a speech application includes presenting data for delivery over the phone, constructing a call flow and enabling prompts and grammars. VoiceXML provides a common set of rules as a flexible foundation, but it¨s up to the designer to create the appropriate flow and personality for a speech system.Just as HTML content is interpreted by a browser and presented visually over the Web, so must VoiceXML be understood or interpreted for presentation over the telephone by a speech, or voice, browser. The speech browser serves as a gateway between a call and an Internet connection. It interprets VoiceXML code and manages dialog between callers and VoiceXML content located at a Web site.Speech browser software also maintains the calls, presents voice prompts that equate to URLs and downloads pages for audio interaction.A VoiceXML-based application using a speech browser provides flexibility, benefiting callers and content providers alike. A caller could use a rotary telephone or the newest wireless model and receive the same service. Content providers have a choice of locating a speech browser at their facilities or outsourcing to an application service provider, carrier or service bureau. As with current visual Web models, trade-offs have to be weighed between ease of implementation, flexibility, cost and other factors. Today, companies are building businesses on speech-based Web content by providing telephony access and presentation of data in interactive audio formats. These businesses host speech applications to provide greater scalability, maintenance and support, while letting content providers focus on their core business.A number of obvious and subtle factors are converging to bring the Web model of VoiceXML to prominence.Many consider the broad industry support of VoiceXML its most apparent strength. Other factors such as recent improvements in text-to-speech quality mean information can be immediately presented in audio format without the time and expense of recording a voice. Looking at the evolution of the Web, it¨s clear the adoption of a common format for content presentation！！HTML！！fueled the growth of the Web. The VoiceXML standard holds similar promise for speech.Many consider the broad industry support of VoiceXML its most apparent strength. Other factors such as recent improvements in text-to-speech quality mean information can be immediately presented in audio format without the time and expense of recording a voice. Looking at the evolution of the Web, it¨s clear the adoption of a common format for content presentation！！HTML！！fueled the growth of the Web. The VoiceXML standard holds similar promise for speech.
